Oh
the annual cereals event which takes
place this year on the twelfth and
thirteenth of June at booth be graph o
in Lincolnshire gives arable farmers a
great chance to catch up on the latest
crop varieties cultivation techniques
and crop protection advances but just as
important it's a quick and efficient
method of seeing all the latest
machinery and equipment in the same
place whether it's changing your current
cultivations tractor for a bigger one
moving to a higher capacity sprayer
maybe or simply improving the running of
your grain store this is definitely the
place to be and to whet your appetite
ahead of the event itself we're looking
at three areas of farm mechanization
where technological progress is
happening particularly quickly there
strip till drilling combine tracks and
telehandlers now one of the biggest
changes in combine technology in the
last five years has been the move from
tires to tracks why the change well it's
simply that a tract machine can keep
going in conditions that would see
wheels digging themselves into a very
big hole and tracks are also often
narrower than the wide wheels commonly
used on big combines and that means they
can come in below the important 3.5
meter threshold that makes them easier
and road-legal to take on the public
highway new holland says it expects that
seventy-five percent of its
range-topping CR 9090 combines will be
sold with tracks rather than tires
however just twenty percent of its
smaller CR 80 80 combines are expected
to have them to track widths will be
available a 610 millimeter unit that
gives an overall combined width of 3.4
eight metres or a seven hundred and
sixty millimeter one that comes in at an
overall width of 3.8
Peter's the cost of the tracks is about
25,000 pounds somewhat more than tires
however for many farmers the importance
of being able to harvest even in
difficult ground conditions easily
outweighs the extra costs john deere
started offering tracks for its S series
combines last year just one width is
available a six hundred and sixty
millimeter wide track that gives the
combine and overall width of 3.5 meters
however deer points out that it's he'll
master combine for farmers with steep
ground will remain a wheeled machine as
tires are more effective than tracks are
cutting into sloping ground the benefits
of the various track shapes are hotly
debated by their makers class uses a
track that is shaped more or less like a
rich tea finger biscuit while other
makers have opted for a triangular
design with a high drive sprocket case
IH also started selling tracks for the
2012 harvest it's certainly not a
newcomer to track technology as its been
fitting triangular tracks to its
quad-track tractors for more than 20
years the tracks are pretty similar to
the new holland units with a choice of
six hundred and ten millimeter and seven
hundred and sixty millimeter tracks that
bring overall width to 3.48 meters or
3.8 meters respectively so for farmers
using them it's a simple trade off
between ease of movement on the road and
the ability to keep going in dump
conditions where tires really might
struggle next we'll be looking at
telehandlers from JCB new holland and
Merlot but remember you can keep up with
all the news on the event at fw i co uk
ford / serials
you